Shawn Phalen: Hey,
Bonnie Burset: How are you
Shawn Phalen: Good, how are you
Bonnie Burset: I'm okay hanging in there. It's funny, funny, funny, not funny, but every week. It's like seems to present
Bonnie Burset: A new level of, you know, it just was kind of like ironic that last week I guess when I guess when I talked to you before I started seeing clients for the week. So I had, I had my supervision on Fridays and in supervision, you know,
Bonnie Burset: Kind of the group was talking about you know how people are really struggling and everything, you know, with the virus everything going on. And I said, like, I don't know if it's because mostly my clients are kids like they've been doing okay.
Bonnie Burset: You know it. The virus hasn't kind of overtaken the other work we were doing.
Bonnie Burset: And then last week ended up being like right after I talked to you. We had that whole talk about, like, you know, the frame and keeping the frame and then the very next call I had was, like, you know, out of nowhere, kind of like suicide assessment.
Bonnie Burset: And then the call after that was
Bonnie Burset: A young high school to high school student I have that, you know, was telling me about, like, all of a sudden her drug use went way up like experimenting with like mixing alcohol and Xanax and I'm like, oh my god.
Bonnie Burset: It just was we had just talked about holding the frame and I had a really hard time like with the first client.
Bonnie Burset: You know, because I, I, that was a question I had for you. So it was just interesting. It was like all of a sudden
Bonnie Burset: I feel like with this virus, like everything that happened, it seems like with clients is like in the very beginning. It kind of felt like vacation for, like, a lot of people, they were able to be home and
Bonnie Burset: It was kind of a new feeling and then all of a sudden, things just started falling apart as financial worries came into the, into play and like
Bonnie Burset: P or people's like loneliness like triggering them just things kind of devolved and so like
Bonnie Burset: It was like last week was just kind of working with people with kind of just like disintegration and a lot of ways. It was really challenging. And yeah, so I wanted to ask, like, because I've, I've noticed this happens before. Sometimes I've had this come up with other clients, where
Bonnie Burset: You know you're realizing in the session there. They're pretty depressed, you want to ask further about it. You want to do some assessment and it just kind of feels like sometimes you you know
Bonnie Burset: I wouldn't say it's a door knob comment but, like, a lot of times it kind of feels like it comes toward the very end of the session where you're kind of realizing, like how sad, someone is or kind of what is
Bonnie Burset: You know so. And in this particular case she's not particularly high risk, and so I you know wasn't overly concerned, but I was concerned enough to ask about it and
Bonnie Burset: You know, but then, of course, I went over time because I was I wanted to make sure I want to give her crisis information. I wanted to do some kind of safety planning.
Bonnie Burset: Which is appropriate. Like I always go over in those cases, but, you know, it just makes me aware that I just noticed my own response and I'm still working with that because I had a different client earlier this year.
Bonnie Burset: Where there was ideation and it went on for a while. So it was something we were frequently checking in on and I just noticed how
Bonnie Burset: Much that affected me like in terms of my own.
Bonnie Burset: You know, I'm really realizing that I have work to do in this area of like boundaries and
Bonnie Burset: You know, the things that kind of pull on me to
Bonnie Burset: You know, like I noticed in this conversation with this particular client. I almost felt like she was pulling for me to like fix her feelings or take them away like is, can people resolve this, and I was explaining like
Bonnie Burset: You know what I think about depression in terms of this combination of
Bonnie Burset: You know, because she does have her mother has depression, anxiety, so she you know I was saying, you know, I think there's a genetic component, but I, a lot of times, but there's also, you know, I believe these thoughts and feelings, these kind of
Bonnie Burset: constructs that we have from childhood that kind of perpetuate negative thought patterns and the way we feel about ourselves and all these things and so
Bonnie Burset: Like, I guess my point is, I noticed there's, there's, I was hearing. There was a
Bonnie Burset: And I've noticed it with this particular client like I'm noticing the clients, where I tend to go over both in time and kind of my emotional energy
Bonnie Burset: And I'm really thinking I thought a lot about what you said about burnout and I can really see it and it's the part of me.
Bonnie Burset: I realized that because, you know, I think I've mentioned, I have two jobs like I worked for a financial firm part time. And one thing I really like about that work is it's totally emotionless
Bonnie Burset: And it's nice to go into that world where my dealings with clients are not evocative in any way, shape, or form.
Bonnie Burset: And I noticed what does kind of dream me a little bit about this work is, you know, negotiating some of these things and it's hard because I do. It's such a fine line like I I'm really, I'm seeing the parts of myself that
Bonnie Burset: Enjoy it. You know, I care about my clients. It's hard from an attachment perspective I do feel attached in some way.
Bonnie Burset: not overly so I don't think, but I do notice where, like, for example, with clients like her. That kind of pull on my more caretaking tendency, you know,
Bonnie Burset: They make me want to caretaker, and I'm noticing that they're the ones I'm going over time with you know crisis stuff comes up and I'm kind of really anxious and on top of it.
Bonnie Burset: And it's that fine line between you know her, you know, letting people you know i know it's really important to
Bonnie Burset: show people that they can because there's this part of them. I think that feels like they can't cope with their own feelings and
Bonnie Burset: It's really important to put it back on them in terms of, I'm not gonna, you know, I'm here to help guide you in some ways, but I'm not here to rescue you. That's okay. It's your work. It's your work. Right. And so like
Bonnie Burset: I don't know, like I just really thought a lot about our conversation and how
Bonnie Burset: I'm noticing. It's really hard for me, like in terms of time. Like, I'm still having a hard time with it. And I think having I was so pumped up after our talk. And like thinking of the format. And then I had her and she totally
Bonnie Burset: Totally got blown out of the water because like it ended up taking a turn. I didn't quite anticipate and yeah so I guess one question is, how do you maintain like the frame when there's that kind of crisis stuff that is hard to
Shawn Phalen: Yeah, so with clients like that. So sometimes it's just a teenage girl.
Bonnie Burset: Is a someone know this is a middle age. I mean, she's like 30 ish not really middle aged which she's like 3635 or 3635
Shawn Phalen: So sometimes the clients like that when they are
Struggling when they have depression when they have anxiety.
Shawn Phalen: Sometimes what happens is that, you know, you start talking and they're not really sure if
Shawn Phalen: I think there's a hesitancy to really talk about what's been going on.
Bonnie Burset: Yeah.
Shawn Phalen: So there's this warming up stage that happens and it's like you're getting door knob because they're starting
Bonnie Burset: You know it's warm up stage and then they feel comfortable to say, okay, I think. Okay, let's, there's a little bit more hair and I'm gonna I'm gonna share with you.
Bonnie Burset: More of what's going on. And in those cases, you know, you have to assess you have yeah you know you have to. So sometimes those sessions are going to go over. Now, if there's a pattern.
Bonnie Burset: You know, if you notice a pattern that she's doing that or I starting to door knobs you at the end of every session.
Shawn Phalen: Then you create a session out of that.
Bonnie Burset: Right, I'm noticing that I eat.
Shawn Phalen: And towards the end of our sessions, you're sharing things that we have to discuss in depth.
Bonnie Burset: I have to as a counselor, I need to make sure the true. Okay, I need to make sure that you're not having ideations. Mm hmm. And
Bonnie Burset: And then you talk about why is she doing that she not wanting to get off the phone with you or is she want she not wanting to end the session with you. What's that about why is that happening.
Shawn Phalen: And then you talk about that.
Further with her and in the next session.
Bonnie Burset: Sometimes you're just going to have clients that are, you know, this is an unprecedented time, I think, yeah, for sure.
Shawn Phalen: people I think are really starting to
Bonnie Burset: They're feeling the effects of this right yeah for sure, financial, the emotional isolation. Yes, the routine is incredibly boring. When is this going to end. They don't see the life with tunnel, right, all of that creates a ton of anxiety.
Bonnie Burset: You know, and having this trapped feeling like, Am I going to have my life back again are things going to go back to normal. It's like a it's on a much bigger scale. Yeah, and how they're feeling about themselves and turn so I wouldn't be surprised.
As
Bonnie Burset: As you continue to meet with clients that there's going to be more of this because, yeah, there's a lot of unanswered questions. You know, I know that you guys are you guys are really have a stay home order. Yeah, where other states.
Don't have it as
Bonnie Burset: The way you guys, the way we New York Catholic, you know, there's, it's just different across the country so
I mean,
Shawn Phalen: kids are in school.
Bonnie Burset: Right. Kids are home a really shitty situations. Right, right. They're not with their friends all this stuff so
Shawn Phalen: You know,
Shawn Phalen: Those are the kind of sessions. You just got to go. Okay, well I'm going to go over, you know, over here, I have to go over because you go over because you're assessing me and you want to make sure
So what we talked about last time.
This isn't going to happen like
Bonnie Burset: This might these changes aren't gonna happen for you overnight. Yeah, it's totally okay.
Bonnie Burset: This isn't just about like bringing up the awareness and bringing you know, bringing the conversation. Yeah, you know, and talking through this and, you know, looking at your the areas in your life where you're having those feelings of
You know,
Shawn Phalen: Why I'm, you know, exploring this feelings.
Bonnie Burset: Yeah, you know,
Shawn Phalen: Really looking at that.
Bonnie Burset: within yourself. Yeah, because I'm realizing you know it's a really big blind spot for me or like an issue in my work that I don't
Bonnie Burset: You know, I know how important the frame is and and and I'm getting it on such a bigger level like anxiety and containment and why it's so important and why modeling is so important and
Bonnie Burset: It's also, you know, and also for myself for burnout as well because I can feel it. I can feel it started like I can feel you know where I'm sometimes having a hard time
Bonnie Burset: You know, I don't like feeling like it's I can't maintain
Bonnie Burset: You know, and especially to like with some of the sessions being video or phone like I can catch these areas where they get more casual than I'm comfortable with, or like you know where I feel I you know I
Bonnie Burset: Not, not in a way that's inappropriate but in a way that makes me aware that you know my, I don't want to reenact what's going on in people's lives with
Bonnie Burset: You know their own family relationships that may be a meshed or like whatever, like I really want to be conscious around that.
Bonnie Burset: And I keep thinking of my own, you know, I see myself kind of falling into it, or having a harder time with certain people who are kind of I feel like pulling for it a little bit.
Bonnie Burset: And I really have to check in with my like figure out like I want to work through what it you know what it is. And I think of some things, you know, I think my mom was definitely her social she was very meshing my mother.
Bonnie Burset: And and i think but I think there's also, I think I mentioned on 99.9% that my dad is like Asperger's. Right.
Bonnie Burset: So I didn't have a lot of attunement from him. That was a major issue. I had to work through and therapy that
Bonnie Burset: You know, he just was completely tone deaf and like emotion blind to my experiences. And that was really hard for me, like, really, really hard for me. I think as a kid.
Bonnie Burset: So I think my mom's style seemed preferable in terms of like the way you treat people are like she was a social worker actually at one point in time for a little while before she had me and then she was at home but
Bonnie Burset: You know, she had a very like her personality. She was definitely very, I would say codependent in terms of
Bonnie Burset: You know, that was her, you know, and I had a lot of things to work through from that, too. But I think in terms of like inner personal style.
Bonnie Burset: I think it's set me up to kind of be so careful that I'm not sounding mean or somehow like we talked about. I got that message that like sounding giving boundaries. I don't, I don't know what
Shawn Phalen: Well, it's almost like over compensating for what you didn't get it.
Bonnie Burset: Yeah. So when you have when you have a parent that's coming just Tom def emotionally
Shawn Phalen: I'm not there.
You know this.
And especially as a female and a mother, you know, it's just that maternal instinct.
Bonnie Burset: Yeah, it got worse. I think that's what made it worse is returning to this work as a mother.
Bonnie Burset: You know, I took a break, a little bit of a break. I did work through one of my pregnancies was the last time I worked. And then I took are actually both pregnancies.
Bonnie Burset: I did I was in this, but I took some time off after, you know, and now I'm like solidly in motherhood and yeah, coming back to the work after kind of being a mom, a second time. It really did.
Bonnie Burset: Yeah, it may it definitely
Bonnie Burset: Amplified it
Shawn Phalen: Sometimes there's clients that have learned helplessness.
Bonnie Burset: Yes, right. And so when I work with people that have learned helplessness like they'll sit there and they'll look at me like I'm supposed to fix the problem.
Bonnie Burset: Right, that's what I felt with this one particular client that kept asking me like it you know sometimes I just wonder if these feelings are
Bonnie Burset: You know, I'm never gonna they're just irresolvable they're part of me and I get it, I totally get that, but I felt almost like and she would kind of pause like as if I was gonna say
Bonnie Burset: You know, I did say yes. I think it can be worked through. But like it's work. I didn't say that quite that way. But you know, I felt like she was looking for me to fix it or take it away. That's what I felt.
Shawn Phalen: Yeah. And so when I have clients like that. I will spend time
When it's appropriate. I will. I'll spend time exploring
Shawn Phalen: What their marriage was like what their life was like, What was your relationship like with your mother.
For men, especially when I get that learned helplessness thing.
Bonnie Burset: relationship like with your mom. And then if they're married. Like, what's it like with your wife for women, you know,
Shawn Phalen: Can be either their dad or mom.
Bonnie Burset: Mm hmm.
Shawn Phalen: And so what I do.
Bonnie Burset: And I, and I explore that with them. And I'm like, well, who, who's the breadwinner Uh huh.
Shawn Phalen: You know, for instance, there's the client I work with now and I was experiencing that and
Shawn Phalen: Especially in the beginning when he first came to see me. And so I had to explore. Like, what was your relationship like with your, with your wife.
Bonnie Burset: You the breadwinner did she do everything rolling to keep everything pay the bills like
Bonnie Burset: And so
Shawn Phalen: And then you know when that's appropriate. I'll say, you know, as, as I've met with you as we we meet and we build our therapeutic relationship. I'm noticing that and I'm wondering if you are
Looking at me to fix this for you.
Bonnie Burset: So obviously you have to read the room. Yeah.
Shawn Phalen: No one, it's the right time to say that I really don't say that with somebody that I've just been working with a month.
Bonnie Burset: Right, we're two months. But what happens is that, you know, you're making them aware of how they're playing out their life room, which is a huge teaching experience for them. Yeah. So then, the goal is to have them start thinking about it. Mm hmm.
Bonnie Burset: It's like even if they get annoyed or angry, that's okay because I mean that there's probably something there. That's true.
Bonnie Burset: So why do I do that I do that because I need to point out to them that what they're doing right now is not working for them. Why as a therapist. I'm here to guide you and I'm here to make suggestions right and
Shawn Phalen: It's up to you if you take those suggestions.
Bonnie Burset: Mm hmm. And so
Bonnie Burset: And then sometimes people like something happens on light bulb goes on. Sometimes you just kind of keep talking about it, you know.
Bonnie Burset: And you don't have to bring it up every single time you know everybody's really different. Yeah, because I feel like that's the challenge I've had with her like I've tried. I've been seeing her since.
Bonnie Burset: What month maybe like Toba of last year, maybe September, October and we felt, I think, a very good relationship in terms of, you know, being able to go places but
Bonnie Burset: I feel like she's challenged kind of insight wise or I'm not really sure if it's defensiveness around her parents or into like
Bonnie Burset: So sometimes I feel like I've hammered at the, you know, parental relationships and every once in a while. She'll kind of come up with something. It's been hard. I think for her to
Bonnie Burset: Come up with or think or talk about areas where there's discord or anything negative, which I've noticed has been like a chat. So it's like a combination of maybe insight and low insight and
Bonnie Burset: Kind of protectiveness or something that it's been really hard to mine. Like, I know the family stuff is there and it's been really hard to get her to make those connections and to, you know, like
Bonnie Burset: To realize how they're impacting her like what, you know, even to get her to kind of connect to that, you know, even though I've tried to reflect back the things that she has brought up.
Bonnie Burset: And, you know, she originally came in to talk about a boyfriend breakup, that, you know, was really hard for her.
Bonnie Burset: And we talked about how some dynamics in his family, what parts were familiar and like you know what things about him more familiar, but it's like
Bonnie Burset: And maybe it's just slow slow work. I think with her. Is that like she'll you know make a.in the moment you'll connect the dots and then it kind of
Bonnie Burset: It doesn't have a lasting doesn't have that light bulb moment. So it's kind of like, you know,
Bonnie Burset: And sometimes plants can't make the connection to their parents because they're very defended around it. It's like I feel like that.
Bonnie Burset: And it's like if if this if this my idea of my parents crumbles, where am I, yeah.
Bonnie Burset: Where does that put me. You know, it's quite literally like she
Bonnie Burset: Works for her dad, she works in her dad's company, she is still very like I would say for a woman, her age. Very Ashton in just practical terms with her family and
Bonnie Burset: She's just now trying. I mean, she does live on our own, but she's just now trying to kind of set more boundaries with them and
Bonnie Burset: You know, just because she feels like it's appropriate, you know, and she doesn't want them to be her own, but she's really struggled in like in her personal relationships to
Bonnie Burset: Like one issue we've dealt a lot with. And this is where this whole crisis has really impacted her is just her sense of loneliness. She has just a really I think what she realized and is that
Bonnie Burset: This depression that what I'm saying is, depression, the symptoms, she was talking about, you know, preceded her breakup proceeded this crisis have always been there.
Bonnie Burset: And like I think she's getting to that deeper level of, like, you know what I've noticed is she doesn't like herself very much and
Bonnie Burset: She's definitely like, you know, had really a lot of trouble and interpersonal relationships and therefore has felt. That's why the one relationship. She had was so significant.
Bonnie Burset: And, you know, we're getting to these kind of deeper layers. I feel like of loneliness and you know how, but yet how
Bonnie Burset: All her relationships are kind of lonely, because there's like a distance. They're not genuine there's we've talked about her. Her need or her what's lacking. And so many of these situations is genuineness, you know, like it's
Bonnie Burset: Distant it's there but not there, you know. So what's probably happening for her is that she feels a connection with you and she feels you're genuine
Bonnie Burset: You're probably the only person in her life that
Is like that.
So she's
You know the
Shawn Phalen: The work is to
Bonnie Burset: Maintain those boundaries about her. Yeah, totally. Because she's going to want to become in mashed with you because that's
Bonnie Burset: That's what I'm feeling and she's always tested that to you know like when I think back
Bonnie Burset: You know she's always someone I struggle with going over time because she'll kind of be talking and then. She'll. She'll I noticed. She'll ask more
Bonnie Burset: personal questions about me than most people do. And I don't I'm pretty good at never like I never
Bonnie Burset: Um, there's certain things. I think you come naturally to me in terms of like I'm a very private person in general. I'm very open, but I'm very private at the same time. So like it's not hard for me to
Bonnie Burset: Win the context isn't right, like with my clients. I never disclosed very much about my life at all.
Bonnie Burset: But I noticed. She'll. She'll ask me, she'll try like she'll try to engage me on a friendship level.
Bonnie Burset: Which is interesting to me, like, I've always noticed that as kind of what I've identified this kind of like in a matching style, a little bit or just boundary confusion about what my role is and who you know what our relationship is her
Shawn Phalen: Yeah, it's, it's a lot of boundary confusion for her, you know,
Bonnie Burset: Yeah boundaries, she's working on those boundaries. Right.
Shawn Phalen: So it's like constantly setting those boundaries for her.
Shawn Phalen: Yeah, and
Bonnie Burset: You know, sometimes self disclosure can be very
Bonnie Burset: Helpful. You know sometimes people have therapists have their own different styles. Some yes therapists obviously don't disclose much at all.
Bonnie Burset: You know, I think as you gain more experience like yeah
Shawn Phalen: Yeah.
Bonnie Burset: So yeah, right. You can naturally kind of find where the what in the moment might be actually therapeutically useful.
Bonnie Burset: And what is not, you know, like, I'll kind of talk around things like if I have experienced with certain things I'll kind of
Bonnie Burset: Make it reference to having experienced, but I don't kind of get into what or why it is or, you know, I feel like
Bonnie Burset: Ironically, it would seem like that part would be hard for me or but it's not that part is like, okay, I feel like kind of gauging. You know what's appropriate or what's you know what could be therapeutically
Bonnie Burset: useful or not.
Shawn Phalen: And I mean I'm be kind of curious as to, like, why, you know,
Shawn Phalen: Why she feel like what's the importance of asking you, personal questions like why
What's that about you know what's. Is it just if it relates to the conversation if it's
Applicable
Bonnie Burset: It's kind of out of left field. Mm hmm. You know, and
Shawn Phalen: Like what does she asked
Bonnie Burset: Oh yeah, I mean, nothing, nothing inappropriate but I feel I it's not so much personal questions, but I feel like she's tried to
Bonnie Burset: And I, you know, and all it's it's hard because I don't know how much is her and it is a normal human tendency, I think, like, especially people who have not, although she has been in therapy for many years, but like
Bonnie Burset: People who are have not been in therapy for example are new to the type of relationship that it is. So sometimes, you know, I just feel like at the beginning or ending of sessions. She'll be very casual with me as if we're good friends.
Bonnie Burset: And to to give you some sense like she actually knows my supervisor. They went to college together and she was able to give me insight, kind of on her that, you know, when
Bonnie Burset: In her talking to me about my supervisor. She kind of indicates like a really close friends.
Bonnie Burset: And then I talked to my supervisor. She's like I barely know or we went to college together but like I see her social media or whatever. But we're not, we don't we don't spend time together. We don't talk on the phone. We don't
Bonnie Burset: And that's a confusion. She has in general with she's very into social media and there's like this distance, kind of, she's very confused about intimacy, I think, and like what
Shawn Phalen: Just what a genuine relationship is like a
Bonnie Burset: Correct way a genuine friendship is and I think right. I think that's why she's, she's you know asking those questions and you know making statements like a really good friends and you know there's yeah
Bonnie Burset: So she's somebody want to keep boundaries. Right. Just a heads up yeah you know she's somebody that I'm
Bonnie Burset: Because when you're doing that, you're obviously modeling. Yes. Right. Right. And I think it's interesting, like I just have to say like, because I was in therapy for a long
Bonnie Burset: I was in therapy for like at least 10 years when I was in you know how to college and
Bonnie Burset: I, you know, looking back on my therapist. I think one thing that I remember feeling was that I felt like
Bonnie Burset: She was kind of not always very attuned to me. But now I look back and I don't think it was that she had boundaries and it was very unfamiliar to me.
Bonnie Burset: To have someone care about me, obviously, and have some level of attachment to care about like my life and me and be engaged, you know, to a certain degree, but also be so distant and not distant, but to be so neutral in a certain way or like
Bonnie Burset: So boundary. This is the only way because she was very good. And she taught me a lot about that. I'm not using it the way I should be but like
Bonnie Burset: I think she did model for me a lot of ethically what i i think she was very solid in terms of the way that she conducted therapy and it taught me a lot.
Bonnie Burset: Yeah. Later, when I understood it, but at the time it felt kind of cold to me or not totally cold, but just
Bonnie Burset: Not warm and fuzzy, you know, but that's because I was unfamiliar with it, you know, and I think I can picture.
Bonnie Burset: You know now as I kind of I struggle with that from the other side of it is realizing, like, you know,
Bonnie Burset: And I, and I think there can be an in between, like, it's kind of interesting because in my supervision, there's one other intern that works for my supervisor and her style is very like
Bonnie Burset: She's very direct. She doesn't struggle so much with boundaries.
Bonnie Burset: And like, you know, the other intern is very like attachment based very warm and fuzzy like she's very nurturing kind of as a person and like you know it's just. And so what's interesting to me is I learned from like
Bonnie Burset: I feel like I'm in the middle or where I want to be as in the middle that you can both be direct and boundaries and and not, you know, not
Bonnie Burset: You know,
Bonnie Burset: Because I see that the the pros and cons of each like it was interesting and supervision. They were both talking about kind of their struggles with
Bonnie Burset: You know my supervisor. We're saying for her sometimes like
Bonnie Burset: Because she kind of encourages us to be bold and put, you know, be direct people you know if it doesn't stick. It doesn't stick. You know, there's no harm in kind of
Bonnie Burset: Confronting things as they are. It can be very, you know, we were in particular, talking about my colleagues borderline patient, she was saying talking a lot about you know how being direct and is really important. You know, and
Bonnie Burset: Then she was saying, you know, the downside to her style is that, you know, sometimes the timing and the landing is off because you know she will sometimes be maybe
Bonnie Burset: Direct and it you know maybe she needs the softer touch at certain times with certain clients and
Bonnie Burset: You know, whereas the other colleague was saying, you know, like she realizes that maybe she's been reenacting something with the borderline client by kind of also walking on eggshells around some of the issues.
Bonnie Burset: That she's having like other people in her life are doing because they it's so hard to be direct with her.
Bonnie Burset: And so it's really interesting because it makes me think kind of where do I want to be. And I feel like I'm somewhere in the middle. Probably closer to the other intern, but I'd like to be i'd like to be in the middle, I think.
Bonnie Burset: There's a way to both hold
Bonnie Burset: Like honesty and confrontation and the usefulness of that and and directness and boundaries, of course, along with
Bonnie Burset: You know in in a warm way. I think it can be. I agree. A nerd. There can be a nurturing way to be direct. You know, I don't think it has to be kind of. That's my goal. But I realized, you know, sometimes I get pulled in and certainly certain clients are more especially when I noticed my
Bonnie Burset: Anxiety is activated, like so. After this client, then I did have the teenage girl who I think all the anxiety everything going on. And she's having a lot of conflict with her mom.
Bonnie Burset: You know, was acting out a lot experiment experimentation wise and like whenever i know i and then I noticed myself, kind of, and I
Bonnie Burset: Feel like in the past I've done a really good job with her not being her mom being very like, you know, doing the motivational interviewing not kind of
Bonnie Burset: You know, taking a very different role about like these are your choices. You know, and
Bonnie Burset: But I felt myself, you know, having a harder time. Like, I don't think I did too badly. I don't think I went way until like mom mode, like I get. It's hard. It's really hard when you're like, and the same with suicide.
Bonnie Burset: Or ideation. You know when that part of me gets activated, it's hard for like me not to go into mom mode and
Bonnie Burset: But, and yet I know that's not helpful. And so it's like, like you said, the changes don't happen overnight. Like, I know where I want to go. I'm seeing where I have some challenges that I
Bonnie Burset: Want to work through like Ken and I think maybe a lot of it has to do with how I see myself and
Bonnie Burset: It's hard, like for example I did give that client extra time and I did do a check in with her after the other, because I had to get off to go to the other clients. So we were finishing up the assessment.
Bonnie Burset: And so I said, you know, I'll just give you a call back, you know, to check in, if that's that's a. Would you like me to call you back to check and she said yes and
Bonnie Burset: We did only stay on for short of a few minutes, and she was really grateful and maybe so maybe that's an example of their times to be flexible when it's appropriate. You know, there's, you know, it's not cut and dry.
Shawn Phalen: It's not cut and dry, you know,
Shawn Phalen: Because every client is really different their needs are different why they're coming to therapy is different, you know, sometimes teenagers do need you to be that mother figure
Bonnie Burset: Other figure with healthy boundary is
Bonnie Burset: You know,
Bonnie Burset: Looking to be in MASH where I think you need, you know, especially teenagers that don't have parents that are available emotionally parents. They even right
Bonnie Burset: Now they know they need. They're trying to they're seeking normalcy.
Bonnie Burset: Sometimes it takes being like asking those questions, like right well because I did have, I felt like I have some obligation to say, you know, like or or
Bonnie Burset: You know I'm concerned, you know, I trust that she only took one Xanax fine but i mean you know I'm concerned with mixing the two because it's really hard to know, you know, that is a fatal combination and I was honest about it. I said that can be fatal.
Bonnie Burset: And I, and I would have said you know that your behavior is concerning I am yeah I did say that what you're doing, let's think about this. Yeah, a
Bonnie Burset: Lot of psycho education yeah know that mixing that stuff right but they don't know now is that
Bonnie Burset: They're buying pills these pills are are are mixed with Fenton on. Right, right, that are really, really not good. You don't. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Totally. Totally. So, you know,
Bonnie Burset: And that kind of conversation is very appropriate. Yeah. I am really
Bonnie Burset: Yeah, yeah. Because I feel like you know there's a point at which you know it's not about being a mom, you know, there's an obligation to provide psycho education when
Bonnie Burset: You know, like it. Is it risky. It is high risk behavior, you know, very any kind of pills. Today I treat that as a very high risk behavior, very, very high like this is not something to mess around with. Yeah, I've had the conversation to let some of my clients that
Bonnie Burset: I said your drug dealers, not your friend right your customer, right.
Bonnie Burset: And for every customer that's standing behind you. There's 20 more standing on right but you get it. Yeah, there's a long right
Bonnie Burset: Right, so they're not they're not your friends. Right, right.
Bonnie Burset: Yeah, I'm super, super direct with them about that one. Yeah.
Bonnie Burset: Let's be really let's have a really honest conversation here. Yeah, yeah. So
Bonnie Burset: It's not cookie cutter. Yeah. Yeah. Because I felt like, you know, after all that, I mean, I gave myself a break. But I felt like, well, we like we just had that talk. I was so amped to do things different. And then it did it just
Bonnie Burset: It's one of those nights.
Bonnie Burset: Thing. It takes time and what you have is awareness which yeah and so those two things you there on your side yeah you awareness to what's happening. You know where you are. You know how you're feeling, you know, you're activated.
Bonnie Burset: There are really, really good signs.
Bonnie Burset: It just takes time to develop your it takes time to develop your style.
Bonnie Burset: Learn how to be direct
Bonnie Burset: It takes time to learn how to set those boundaries. Sometimes that needs to be set. You know I've said this before, you know, this is all like very learning. We're learning. We're constantly learning. Yeah, stop learning in this field.
Bonnie Burset: Just you just don't see it as long as you have that awareness. It's okay.
Bonnie Burset: Don't put so much pressure on yourself. Yeah.
Bonnie Burset: Yeah, because I feel like there's some part of me that you know now that I know kind of so much about why it's so important. Because I think when I was just starting out, like, is this an I am still just starting out in a lot of ways, but
Bonnie Burset: You know, when I was still a student and like just, you know, became an intern, you know, and even as a trainee like I kind of felt like
Bonnie Burset: You know, I didn't pay as much attention to these finer points of of it. And as I'm going along. And I'm like, I'm seeing, you know,
Bonnie Burset: Yeah, I know it's it's not good. You know, in terms of both for myself and for my clients. And so I think the more I'm aware of it, the more I'm like, Well, I don't want to be a bad
Shawn Phalen: You know when we're in school and we're starting hours to get through the session.
Bonnie Burset: Oh yeah, that's true. I didn't think I would ever continue my first session. I was so overcome with anxiety, just like performance anxiety that and I had a case that was, she was taught like she was, she
Bonnie Burset: I, I, I, yeah, I think she was bipolar. But she was on the sheet. The diagnosis was not completely anyway. It doesn't matter.
Bonnie Burset: But like I was so nervous with her and like you know it just, it's so interesting to think about my very first client because you know you have all these like plans or tools like I'm going to do it. We're going to do a timeline to get all these things and like
Bonnie Burset: You have to be so flexible in this work because, you know, anything you think you're going to do. And then it becomes about well, is this
Bonnie Burset: What are they bringing to the, you know, because really therapeutically i mean
Bonnie Burset: It's not an issue if it's not an issue and, you know, we kind of it is client driven. So it's like, I can't have my agenda of like, well, I like to do this tool or this technique, but it doesn't
Bonnie Burset: So yeah, I think I feel like, you know, when I look back to, then I know I've learned a lot, but I feel like I'm still yeah I'm definitely still learning. Sometimes I feel like
Bonnie Burset: I, you know, I'm still a baby in this, you know, it's, it's, it's, you know, only been six years. But, you know, and intermittent, you know, I took time off my kid. So probably more like for
Bonnie Burset: You know, but yeah, it takes a lifetime. It's a lot of learning and just yeah I think learning my style and I really have to work out.
Bonnie Burset: I have to work through
Bonnie Burset: Letting go of the feelings. I have when I set a boundary like like worrying that a mean or weren't, you know, like I have to put myself first and the healthy way and
Bonnie Burset: Sometimes I get out of practice with that. And then I'm like, I like all see the time
Bonnie Burset: I i know i want to stop a client. I know we, you know, I know I can say, you know, we're out of time or no let's pick this up next time. And then I'll it'll kind of like end up being like
Bonnie Burset: Well, they're almost done. I'll wait till they they're just about it. But then it's like, you know, and it's like I'm not, you know, I have to get rid of that are like work through that feeling of
Bonnie Burset: There's this fear that I'm abandoning them and it's so wacky
Right, so
Shawn Phalen: Well, okay. So you've identified you've identified it. So there's some kind of possibly some kind of abandonment within you.
Shawn Phalen: Yeah, that, you know,
That's
Shawn Phalen: Activating you that's, you know, coming up for you in the room.
Um,
But here's the thing is like
Shawn Phalen: You can't overcompensate
Bonnie Burset: Right, because they know it. Right, right, right. And that's the other thing like as we're talking I'm remembering or thinking about is, like, you have to assume that anybody who walks into your office is probably going to have issues with boundaries, one way or another. Either you know
Bonnie Burset: Very rarely too rigid and my experience. But, you know, sometimes, and sometimes too so you know that's something that you have to assume people are going to be testing you all the time like not intentionally not you know it's part of their why they're there, you know, but
Bonnie Burset: You know, I think I have to kind of go in kind of being ready for that a little bit that you know like
Bonnie Burset: The door knob comments are going to happen continuously. It's going to happen a lot with a lot of people, there's going to be people maybe trying to get more time or more. Whatever, I don't know what
Bonnie Burset: Questions. Do you feel
Shawn Phalen: Like you're in control of the session
Um,
Bonnie Burset: Well, part of it, like we talked about and which is why I was so bombed. I didn't really have a chance to implement as well. It's easier with the kids because it's a different
Bonnie Burset: You know I am. I do feel more in control with them because they're, they did there is like a more structured, but I think part of it and you pointed it out very, I mean,
Bonnie Burset: You telling me your example helped me to identify I'm missing structure like it was very helpful for me to hear kind of how you structure.
Bonnie Burset: Because I'm kind of free flowing. So, like, I don't have a set plan when we sit down, we kind of pick up on themes from the week before and I kind of go with what's been going on. So, yeah, no, it's fluid. So, at the end, they're still talking and like you know
Bonnie Burset: We don't have that kind of winding down. I'm kind of interspersed like throughout the conversation I'm putting in my you know observations or insight, you know,
Bonnie Burset: Thing reflection or you know whatever and suggestions, maybe ideas of work that they can do throughout the throughout the session, but then it leaves it kind of nebulous vague.
Bonnie Burset: No beginning there's no end. This is what I do for clients that that are like that, and they just kind of, they just kind of their
Shawn Phalen: Little bit rambling and they're all over the place. And they're just sort of not very organized in their thought process and they just have a lot, say, you know, it's like, Can I interject. And I'll say, okay, well, what are you doing, like, how are you, what are your coping skills around that.
Bonnie Burset: That's very good. I'm gonna write that down.
Bonnie Burset: Is it it is number one, it slows them down. Right. And then, what it does is it it's putting it on them. I'm asking them. Well, what are you doing
For that what is the coping skill that you are using. And then they have to think so, it slows them down. It gets them thinking and then they answer you, and typically they're going to go only give you maybe one thing
Bonnie Burset: And then you can talk about. Okay. That's, yeah, that's a great way to do it. And have you have you
Anything else that you've tried
Let's think of one other thing that you can try. It's going to help you when you start feeling like this.
Bonnie Burset: Huh, that's really good. I'd like how that I really like how that moves it from kind of inaction and vagueness to like a sense of personal responsibility and also like an action item associated
Shawn Phalen: With it, because it takes away that kind of like everything is just kind of, you know, like
Out there, you know, like, okay, it's I kind of how I talked about last time where they come in, they tell you what's going on, you let them talk and then you just say okay so now
Bonnie Burset: What are you doing, what are some cooking skills that you're using. And then, what, what happens is then the third like the remainder of the session like so what you've done is you've gained control.
And control the session.
Shawn Phalen: You've asked them a question.
You put it back on them.
Bonnie Burset: Ask them to respond like what are you doing, they tell you something, and then you as therapists can expand on that. Let's try. Let's think of one more thing you can do
Bonnie Burset: And and then it just you know if there's more conversation that needs to be had around it. Like if they say, Well, you know, I've tried this and this doesn't work. And I said, then don't do that. If it doesn't work, don't do it. Let's
Bonnie Burset: Do because really what it is is like, you know, we are not only listening to what's going on for them, but it's it's also we're giving them suggestions around coping skills and we're helping them explore things that will help them to make help them feel better. Right, right.
Shawn Phalen: That's always when I'm at the end of the session that is always my goal is to say, okay,
What are you going to do, let's talk about what you're going to do.
Bonnie Burset: And sometimes you'll have clients that won't do anything right. Nothing where I maybe have a session around why that is. Mm hmm. And then you have the clients that will kind of do it off and on. And then you have clients that will do it. And those are the ones that actually progress.
Bonnie Burset: Like you're always having to change to talk about, like, Okay, how's that working for you, why are you doing it. What's the barrier that kind of thing. So I think you don't get stuck in this like you don't want them get stuck insane, nothing works. Right, right.
Bonnie Burset: Right. Right. And I do like the action piece because I feel like where I kind of like feel at home is, you know,
Bonnie Burset: I really like kind of identifying patterns and themes and kind of like, you know, the roots of things and attachment and kind of looking at all that. But then sometimes you realize like, you know, so I've been thinking a lot lately, my little meditation. My mindfulness walks with my stroller.
Bonnie Burset: You know about like different angles we take in therapy in terms of what we choose to focus on, you know, like, and I thought of it in terms of like the what the why though, you know, the how and sometimes like it's really easy.
Bonnie Burset: I think is therapist to get caught up in like the roots of things and the why, you know, and there's a place for that.
Bonnie Burset: But there's also a place for the how and the what, you know, like, like I could see with this particular client, especially because the insight is slow and it's going to be a
Bonnie Burset: breadcrumb thing with her that I kind of left aside from assessment. I mean of course that was appropriate in this situation, but
Bonnie Burset: You know, we kind of left her with all these crappy feelings and we didn't really have. I mean other than I did encourage her to re evaluate her meds situation.
Bonnie Burset: But there it kind of wasn't a what and and i think that action piece is really important for all the reasons you said, and part of it too is getting clients to buy in, especially clients like her.
Bonnie Burset: That or maybe have a secret wish that someone else will fix it or take it away from her, that there's a piece that kind of reading nights their end of the deal and their ownership of the situation and and
Bonnie Burset: That they're not kind of the victim of their feelings, you know, they're in control of their feelings and especially you know the rest will take time.
Shawn Phalen: And, you know, especially for her because she said, will I always feel
Bonnie Burset: Right.
Shawn Phalen: My always going to feel like this, right.
Shawn Phalen: There was somebody like her. You're gonna want to say
Bonnie Burset: Oh, maybe
Shawn Phalen: Yeah.
Shawn Phalen: Like with her, you're gonna want to end the sessions with
Shawn Phalen: Mm hmm. Okay. Because what you're wanting to do is you're wanting to let her know that she's in full control of her life.
Bonnie Burset: Right.
Shawn Phalen: And that hurt her choices she has she has choices.
Bonnie Burset: That her choices can can make her happy create that happy.
Bonnie Burset: We work for we we have to sometimes work for happiness. Yeah, what you're doing is the goal is to get her self worth, and self esteem up to where she is.
Shawn Phalen: Yeah, you know what I can to this suggestion.
Bonnie Burset: This is run
Bonnie Burset: Be five hours, you know, it's something right, the very right breathing taking a walk.
Shawn Phalen: Like you start out very simple like it's it's not everyone thinks that has to be complicated.
Bonnie Burset: Right, it's not doesn't have to be so.
Shawn Phalen: Somebody like her. That's her you're gonna wanna
Bonnie Burset: Like in those just really connects with me because one thing I didn't realize that kind of frustrated me because I mean it doesn't frustrate me huge you know
Bonnie Burset: Hugely but now I'm kind of piecing together what it is that she will often come into session every session kind of has the same flavor of
Bonnie Burset: Oh yeah, you know, nothing's really changing same week same feelings about my ex, you know, and it's kind of, you know, you do notice your counter transference like God. That's annoying.
Bonnie Burset: The major way. I mean, I like her, you know, it's not. I understand where she is. But, you know, but at the same time that that's a big part of it that it allows
Bonnie Burset: There's a piece of this because I kept thinking
Bonnie Burset: And I tried talking to my supervisor about it, I think, is like what because I always think about with with people's behaviors. What is the payoff here.
Bonnie Burset: What are they getting out of staying stuck. What is the starkness about like she's very stuck feeling all you know that's been the theme.
Bonnie Burset: Is and I'm like what is that about, but now I think I'm getting it, that it is. I think there's a huge part about staying stuck, which is about not taking responsibility for
Bonnie Burset: Where
Shawn Phalen: We're live. There's her right
Bonnie Burset: Yes, right through with her. Her parents that learned helplessness and you don't want it to start serving having that that be
Shawn Phalen: Your relationship with her.
Bonnie Burset: Right and how she doesn't have to work in therapy there because the client that's just, it's the same thing.
Shawn Phalen: Over every time we meet with her. It's the same thing. And so she's if she is interested in sometimes going to clients that
Bonnie Burset: Don't want to make those changes. Yeah. You know, so
Shawn Phalen: But at least this way you'll be able to kind of, it gives you, you can explore it on a different level.
Bonnie Burset: Right you explore it by putting the responsibility on her right because that's, I think that's the feeling that kind of annoyed me now that I think about it is that she was always putting it out there and
Bonnie Burset: Kind of the implied message or question. I took from it is like
Bonnie Burset: Because I found myself questioning why am I not effective as therapy not working, you know, because she would kind of keep putting it out there like
Bonnie Burset: About how things never change how stuck. She is kind of like, and I would find myself wondering maybe she's not going to come back because she's gonna feel like this isn't working, you know, like
Shawn Phalen: And then, you know, and then it can become a conversation. What are you doing,
Bonnie Burset: When right but have you done that, you know, to elicit this changes that you want you to write about how you wanted to feel we've talked about how you're not happy with relationships that you had, you know, whatever. You know what I'm saying.
So,
You just putting it back on her in a really nice gentle way.
Bonnie Burset: And I think that'll help me. Overall, because I think about even small things like at the end of our conversation the check in.
Bonnie Burset: I said, Oh, like, yeah, I'm sure there's groups out there online right now with everything going on like support groups for people who are feeling really isolated. I'm sure there's a lot out there.
Bonnie Burset: And then immediately, and this is something I typically do that. I don't want to do is all kind of say, Oh, I can look into that and get back to you and I don't have time for that. And I'm like, why would I do that. Why do I say that, you know, and it's like
Bonnie Burset: So you have an example.
Bonnie Burset: You're putting your work on yourself and you're taking work away from her, which is right.
Bonnie Burset: Right, you're wanting to be helpful, you're wanting to help her, but I don't ever do that.
Shawn Phalen: Unless they're in my office and they say, hey, can we can we look at this, I am
Bonnie Burset: Gather why we're doing it together.
Bonnie Burset: And then it's like, okay, but then
Bonnie Burset: And then you might have to keep saying, look at this meetings. Look at those meetings and she doesn't do it. What's the barrier, right. What's a lot of stuff like
Shawn Phalen: You might have a lot of session.
Shawn Phalen: What's
Shawn Phalen: The barrier. What's the barrier. Right.
Shawn Phalen: Burial she she her barriers are kind of cemented into her right now. And so it's going to take. It's going to, and it's going to be uncomfortable for her to start doing these things for herself.
Bonnie Burset: Yes. Right. Right.
Bonnie Burset: Never she's never had to do that ever bright, she just happened.
Shawn Phalen: And that's why her relationships with men don't work out either because after point in time she's probably looking at them to do you know like pick up that slack for her make her
Bonnie Burset: By, you know, like, yeah, so it all happens that way. You know, so yeah.
Shawn Phalen: Alright, so let's reschedule for now.
Shawn Phalen: Yeah.
Bonnie Burset: That sounds great. Yeah, that was so helpful. By the way, thank you so much. It really
Bonnie Burset: Connect a lot of dots for me.
Shawn Phalen: So you want to do next Monday at five.
Bonnie Burset: Yeah, that works great for me this time is as perfect
Shawn Phalen: So I'll be able to do this time until I go back to the office and God knows mind I'll be doing that.
Bonnie Burset: I hear you. Same here.
Shawn Phalen: You're not giving us any clue as to when we're going to be opening up so
Bonnie Burset: Same here. So the
Shawn Phalen: SAME BOAT. Okay.
Shawn Phalen: All right. Okay. Great. Thank you.
Bonnie Burset: Thank you so much. Take care.
Bonnie Burset: Bye bye, see you next week.
Okay.
Shawn Phalen: Have you been waiting one
Gracie Chisman: Yeah. Oh, sorry.
Shawn Phalen: So we met. How long ago was it that we met.
Gracie Chisman: I don't think
Gracie Chisman: Okay, um,
Shawn Phalen: Okay, so
Shawn Phalen: I'm one of the therapists at bright hurt.
And
I'm just going to be completing I'm an assessment. It's just some questions that you've probably been asked before.
Gracie Chisman: But it just gives me some background information. So I'm just
Gracie Chisman: Tell me.
Shawn Phalen: How many what brought you to bright heart. Why, why are you seeking services now.
Gracie Chisman: Um, because I was going through the Suboxone program.
Gracie Chisman: They, they switched over to you guys. Okay, so you've been
Shawn Phalen: In a program before
Gracie Chisman: Yeah, I've been an IT person years. How many
Gracie Chisman: Or five years. Okay. And so what was your drug of choice, a mess. And then it became opioids.
Okay. And how long have you been clean
Gracie Chisman: Off of which one both
Gracie Chisman: Let's see mess. I've been clean
Gracie Chisman: Clean for
Gracie Chisman: 45 years now, with one slip up okay and then opioids. I've been clean off for those now for
Gracie Chisman: Three years now.
Shawn Phalen: Okay. Um, and so
Gracie Chisman: Have you had any have you done residential programs before and you wrote residential treatment. Yeah.
Gracie Chisman: That was back in
Gracie Chisman: 2007 I believe
Okay, and then
How many residential treatment centers. Did you do
Gracie Chisman: I did one inpatient and outpatient
Gracie Chisman: And I have never force of forcibly by law or a probationary thing ever had to be in any of these. Okay, so any arrest in the past, any legal issues. And yeah, I just recently in
Gracie Chisman: Last year I got my first criminal offense for a DUI and I totaled my car. And then I got a DUI probation violation also just
Gracie Chisman: That
Gracie Chisman: January, February of this year.
Gracie Chisman: January.
Gracie Chisman: Okay. Wait, so you're on probation, because of the DUI. Yeah, but you've not been on probation. Prior to that,
How many years. Would you say you've been you've had been using
Gracie Chisman: For over 10 years. Okay.
Shawn Phalen: Okay. And are you working now.
Gracie Chisman: Not currently. Okay.
Gracie Chisman: Are you working. Are you went all this stuff is over, you're going to be going back to work, are you, what are you doing, oh, well, I'm right now I'm in the process of looking for
Gracie Chisman: Employment again.
And what do you do for work. What have you done in the past.
Gracie Chisman: Oh, I've done all kinds of stuff. I've done construction landscaping.
Gracie Chisman: Housekeeping I've done
Gracie Chisman: See my work I've done dispatching security.
Gracie Chisman: Cash share cage cashier
Gracie Chisman: Okay, so you got a lot of you had a lot of experience doing things. Yeah, it looks really good.
Shawn Phalen: You'll find a job.
Gracie Chisman: So tell me, like, what made you want to
Shawn Phalen: Get on Suboxone. What made you want to get clean
Gracie Chisman: My kids mainly and that's what started out, and I wanted to actually have a life and everything and just get her.
Gracie Chisman: Get away from it.
Shawn Phalen: Why do you think you started using
Gracie Chisman: I know I started using my I used to stay numb in my marriage. I was married for 10 years and actually technically I'm still married to him, which has been 21 years now.
Gracie Chisman: And that's, that's who got me.
Gracie Chisman: To use his on again my my drugs for the first time when I was 17 and then we ended up getting into a heavy and he was very, very abusive and just the way I coped
And how old are your kids now.
Shawn Phalen: Okay. And do they live with you do contact with them.
Gracie Chisman: Oh yeah, yeah, we're very close. Okay.
Gracie Chisman: I've never had any CPS cases or anything like that either. Okay.
Shawn Phalen: What about any. Is there, is there a
Gracie Chisman: Substance abuse in your in your family sibling yes parents
Who uses in your family or has used
Gracie Chisman: My mom and my oldest brother. Okay, and what
Shawn Phalen: Generic they currently using. Yeah. And what are these
Gracie Chisman: Methods alcohol and my oldest brother uses basically whenever he can get his hands on.
Gracie Chisman: Do you have contact with them.
Gracie Chisman: Yes, very little. Now, I was living at my mom's up until a couple months ago.
Gracie Chisman: So, um, yeah that's extremely hard and it's hard for me to go visit my mom and stuff because of it. Yeah. Okay, so
Shawn Phalen: Okay. So, where, where are you living now since you're not with your mom.
Gracie Chisman: I am currently living with my boyfriend. Okay.
Gracie Chisman: Okay. Is he clean. Oh, yeah, yeah. He doesn't drink or anything like that.
Gracie Chisman: Okay, and what about any are you experiencing any depression. Yeah. Are you okay
Come on. When did the depression start
Gracie Chisman: Oh, it comes and goes.
Gracie Chisman: I started getting into it recently within like the last month.
Gracie Chisman: I've been. I've been talking to my drug counselor and stuff about it and my support. I'm just not exactly sure what it's over. If it's one thing or multiple things. I just haven't figured out yet. Okay. Who's your dragon.
Gracie Chisman: My Tony Costa, who is it true bright hurt, um,
Gracie Chisman: No, she's through this, the boxing program here in Delaware County in the open door clinic.
Gracie Chisman: She worked with Dr groves.
Shawn Phalen: So what are you doing groups with bright heart then what
Gracie Chisman: I've been doing grips with that Tony through the Suboxone thing and I, I've been doing groups with that Dr groves also
Gracie Chisman: I just recently recently joined the bright heart group.
Gracie Chisman: Okay. When did you join to remember when you join her
Gracie Chisman: End of last month.
Gracie Chisman: This month, yes. So, okay.
Shawn Phalen: And who's the doctor that you talk to is it Dr. Gross.
Gracie Chisman: Yeah. Okay, so it has the depression just started for you or is it something. Has it increased recently, your, your feelings of depression.
Gracie Chisman: Will flow that kind of depends on your definition of that because I've dealt with it, most of my life after my brother was killed. I dealt with depression really bad.
Gracie Chisman: So it just, it depends on, you know, things that are going on in my life and everything.
Shawn Phalen: Okay, so you're okay. So when did you
When did you grow their pass
Gracie Chisman: My wife.
Gracie Chisman: When did your brother passed, I think, past the 96 okay
Shawn Phalen: And then you think that that's when
Shawn Phalen: I mean, that was obviously a very life changing event.
Gracie Chisman: Oh yeah, that in the fact that my oldest brother beat all my mom all my life growing up and if it wasn't him, it was her boyfriend. So I've been dealing with things like that all my life.
Gracie Chisman: Yeah, and
Shawn Phalen: Have you been in past domestic violence relationships yourself.
Yes.
Gracie Chisman: I was married at 16 of my, like I said, My husband was very, very abusive right okay um
Shawn Phalen: What's the highest level of education that you finished.
Gracie Chisman: Have a high school diploma. Okay.
Any learning disabilities.
Gracie Chisman: And yeah, it's really hard for me to
Gracie Chisman: Store new input, I guess.
Gracie Chisman: Unless I'm like really really hands on.
Gracie Chisman: I it's hard for me to read. I have a hard time
Gracie Chisman: Focusing and remembering what I read.
Gracie Chisman: And then math. I'm I never ever been any good with math. Okay, so
Shawn Phalen: But you've never been diagnosed with any kind of learning disability. No.
Shawn Phalen: Okay, and what about friends. Do you have a good support network of
Friends, yeah.
Shawn Phalen: And do you what do you go out and I mean not now, but you know you have friends that you would go do things with or do you move mostly do stuff with your boyfriend.
Um,
Gracie Chisman: Well, that's kind of changed.
Gracie Chisman: Since having a boyfriend. So yeah. Um, but yeah, I still try going and hang out my friends like I haven't hung out with my friends in quite some months and I actually we got together yesterday.
Gracie Chisman: Because they wanted to take me to lunch for my birthday, which is tomorrow. So I was like, Yeah, I'll go out. Okay.
Gracie Chisman: And we went up in the mountain actually had a good time.
Shawn Phalen: Okay, good.
And how long have you been with your boyfriend.
Gracie Chisman: I have been with him. Now for
Gracie Chisman: So it's Valentine's. But I've known him for nearly 30 years
Shawn Phalen: Okay, so you guys grew up together.
Gracie Chisman: I yeah actually he ran around with my older brothers. Oh, he did. Okay, so you've now. Okay.
Shawn Phalen: Okay and I'm sorry, do your kids live with you or they are they on their own.
Gracie Chisman: They're all around. Are they okay
Shawn Phalen: And do they live close by.
Gracie Chisman: Oh yeah. Okay, so you get to see him. Oh, yeah, yeah.
Gracie Chisman: They're like my mom. They're always checking on me. Mom, how are you doing today.
Gracie Chisman: That's great. Yeah. And my kids are one of my main, main support system because I'm very honest with my kids and everything right.
Shawn Phalen: Okay, and then any other addictive behaviors that you've experienced can be like internet, it could be sex addiction to gambling.
Any other addiction.
Gracie Chisman: Just recently I started having thing a craving a really bad rating thing for alcohol, which Dr groves helped me out with that. So that hasn't that's been so much better lately.
Gracie Chisman: Any other addiction is
Gracie Chisman: No, I really hate my phone so
Gracie Chisman: And I don't like gambling okay,
Gracie Chisman: I better thanks for my money.
Shawn Phalen: How did he help you out with the alcohol cravings. What, what did he, what did he suggest
Gracie Chisman: My doctor. Yeah. Oh, Dr groves. She gave me this medication actually for
Okay.
Gracie Chisman: And it's tough. Right. Yeah. Yeah.
Shawn Phalen: Okay, so, so was alcohol and yeah well you just had to do you live in, how are you gonna be on probation.
Gracie Chisman: Well, I haven't went to court for my second DUI. So I don't know what they're going to do with me. I don't know how much
Gracie Chisman: I don't know if I'm gonna be doing jail time. I don't know how if my probation can be extended. I have no idea what's going on with that right now. But it was
Gracie Chisman: Two and a half years informal probation for my first day. Why is that who's gay
Okay, and then
You
Shawn Phalen: Know, do you drug test. Are they making your test.
Gracie Chisman: And they sent me a test in the mail. What was last month, but not since then. But usually, yeah. When I'm
Gracie Chisman: When I go to the open door clinic and see Tony and do our groups, every time we come in like sweet pea. Usually once a week at least.
Shawn Phalen: Okay.
Gracie Chisman: His probation making you test. Now it's informal
Gracie Chisman: Basically, not even on probation. Right. Okay.
Shawn Phalen: Okay, um, anything anything, any questions that you have. Because it's, it sounds like you're you're set with counseling. It sounds like you're doing the groups and all that stuff. So
Gracie Chisman: Sounds like you've got a lot of support. Oh, yeah. Yeah, no. And this is something I'm wanting on my own. I'm not being forced to do by law or anything like that. So, but I think that's another thing. It gives me an advantage because I want it. I'm I'm fighting for it. So yeah, definitely. Okay.
Shawn Phalen: All right, well, if you don't have any other questions. Thank you.
Gracie Chisman: Alrighty, thank you so much. Okay.
Gracie Chisman: Take care, you too. Bye.